was the hardest year of my life by far I
started a year clinically depressed and
I was still in denial about that illness
in hindsight it's blatantly obvious that
I really wasn't okay I had completely
isolated myself by January and I was
really really lonely
I hardly ever left my room and when I
did I only got ready to keep up
appearances
so if people would think I'm okay even
though I really wasn't because I really
didn't want anyone to know that I wasn't
okay
but I did notice that I wasn't okay and
I eventually asked for help
admitting that you have a mental health
problem can be scary and I honestly
thought that no one at my university
would take me seriously but instead of
being told that it's not a big deal I
was told that I had mycologist full
support and I really felt that support
without my teachers friends and family
being supportive I don't think I would
have had the courage to take a break
from a mental health from University
taking a break is one of the best
decisions I've ever made people often
think of others taking him into health
break as them just going on a break and
miraculously being better afterwards but
taking a break is hard work it means
that you built up the courage to ask for
help and you took the first step towards
getting better but then a lot of work
actually begins therapy is hard work but
I can tell you it's so worth it taking
antidepressants even though you're
scared of the side effects that may
affect your personality is hard work
forcing yourself out of bed is hard work
I'm a perfectionist and I def I'll hold
myself to very high standards but 20-19
taught me that things that may be
objectively small can be really great
achievements for people I'm proud of
myself for getting up on morning's where
I really didn't feel like it I'm proud
of myself for getting ready and
going to therapy even though most of the
times I really felt like I didn't want
to go I'm proud of myself for these
things because they weren't easy and I
did my best even though my best wasn't a
lot at that point in time taking a break
from university also meant coming clean
about my mental health issue on social
media before 2019 social media was a
place for me where I tried to be perfect
and I felt like I had to be but having a
mental health issue is far from perfect
I was really scared of telling everyone
what was really going on but I
nonetheless did it and I made a very
honest and personal video about it and
instead of you know the hate comments
and lots of subscribers that I was
expecting
the video is one of the most viewed
videos on my channel and it's common
section has been an incredible source of
support and I never expected that to
happen posting that video really helped
me because it took away this pressure to
be perfect
and I know that that pressure was self
created but I still felt like I couldn't
escape it being honest about my health
on social media gave me much more
meaningful conversations with my
subscribers and it has made my content
more meaningful for me it has really
changed the way I treat social media and
I've kind of realized the more honesty
you put in the more honesty you get back
and I don't know it's hard to explain
but in a way I think it has just made
what I do in social media a lot more
meaningful for me and a lot less about
what it looks like and a lot more about
how it makes people feel this experience
has really changed way on your social
media
I used to use
as a place for perfection but I've
started to be a lot more honest even
when things aren't going well or you
know they don't look pretty and
Instagram post my Instagram feed no
longer only consists of happy captions
and perfectly photoshopped pictures
instead it is an honest feed with real
captions about things that I'm actually
feeling and yeah not every photo looks
perfect and is greatly aligned with my
feed but it's honest it's real and I
wish I had come across more real feats
when I was younger and I was looking at
these things and I have just bought
everybody's so happy and I'm not so I
now try to post things that I wish my
younger self had come across my break
from University wasn't just filled with
focusing and getting better
it was also filled with preparing for my
final exams because in order to get into
the second year of my degree I had to
pass exams at the beginning of my second
year which were the exams for my first
year which I didn't sit because I took a
break to be honest
trying to figure yourself out and at the
same time preparing for important exams
wasn't easy but I got through it and I
passed my exams the thing is like I
didn't notice like how much just like
wait on me until I just read the email
because over the past few days I had a
bit of this like fear that maybe I don't
pass you know maybe I have to pack up my
room maybe I have to leave all my
friends behind and yeah I don't know
what I do man I don't have a back-up
plan really it was it was a fee and I
felt like you know over the past two
days when I was an extras I've had a bit
like undeserving because everybody who
was there you know day went to do exams
and I was the only person who didn't
know if she got through her exams
passing those exams meant a lot to me
even though they were only pass/fail
saying meant a lot more than I thought
it would it showed me that I had kind of
earned my place at this University
something which I hadn't really felt
like because I was wondering whether the
fact that I had to take a break maybe
meant that I wasn't meant to be there
that I you know wasn't good enough or
did I I just couldn't do it
and I wasn't really sure whether I
deserve to be there I honestly didn't
think that I could pass I wasn't a very
negative state of mind doing most of my
break from uni obviously because you
know I was recovering from a mental
health issue and it just seemed
impossible to pass these exams so when I
passed it kind of showed me you can
achieve more than you think you can and
that was a really really great feeling
because I hadn't really believed in
myself when I took these exams going
back to university after taking him into
health break can be scary I know it was
for me I wondered whether people would
look at me differently whether they
would treat me differently because I
took him into health break and I mean I
was very honest about that on social
media I made a video about my mental
health and it had been viewed tens of
thousands of times but time I went back
to university so it wasn't that unlikely
that people had seen me cry and that was
a little bit scary and awkward but it
turns out I had seriously underestimated
how amazing my friends are and they
didn't look at me any different they
didn't treat me any different just you
know the way I was still part of the
group and they still treated me like it
it showed me that they didn't look at me
any different and some of them have also
told me that they really respected the
fact that I had the courage to take that
break so thank you so much for being
such great people and it has shown me
you know it can be scary to do things
like going back to university but it can
also be so worth it because when I went
back for my second term I just realized
that I was different in the way I cooked
in the way that I was actually enjoying
my degree and so it was worth it to take
that break and it was definitely worth
it to go back so although 2019 was tough
there were also some really good moments
for me 20-19 was the year that I really
learned to be comfortable in my own skin
I always used to be a skinny girl and
I've learned very early on in life that
compliments like wow you're so skinny
really easily turn into you must be
anorexic and when you get told that over
and over again over years it just makes
you want to hide because everybody just
tells you you look like an illness and I
don't know exactly why it really changed
for me 2019 but it did and I've kind of
learned to just not really care about my
body size I can't change the fact that
I'm a small person and I've always been
skinny and I'm still gonna keep eating
whatever I want and I've learned to tell
people that my body is none of their
business
I even filmed a lookbook and that meant
a lot to me because it included things
like skinny jeans and a short skirt and
those things may not seem like a big
deal to you but they're a really big
deal to me because I never wanted
anybody to see my skinny legs because I
didn't want them to point out how skinny
they were and I've kind of learned to
stop caring what people think about me
because my body size is not a defining
attribute of me and I am done letting
people tell me every wise when I return
to you man
I also realized that I just become a
much happier person I smiled when I
genuinely wanted to smile and yes I had
moments where I was genuinely happy and
that was something I really hadn't felt
in the university year before so I just
realized I've gotten a lot better
the term was stressful but I also
realized that I was coping more stress I
wasn't you know reacting with isolating
myself and not being able to do my work
but instead I was actually dealing with
it in a healthy way my term ended with
very positive reports from my teachers
something that neither I nor my teachers
had expected basically I've been told
that you know they didn't really expect
me to do well which I mean I'm doing
well now so I guess I defied
expectations but I know that there may
be a lot of people who go on
intermission who are scared of that
happening so I just wanted to know that
just because people think you can't do
well that doesn't mean that you can't do
well that was a big reminder that other
people's expectations don't define your
abilities this seemed like a great end
to my year full arc of you know starting
really low but actually getting better
and I went home and I was honestly
feeling great but a few days ago I found
myself crying while my rabbit was dying
in my arms she had been with us for ten
years and she really meant the world to
me
she's our little angel and I honestly
can't believe that she's gone I didn't
really know how to cope with it and I
still don't really and I'm far from
being able to say that I've dealt with
it her death has put into perspective
how blessed I am with all the support I
have
from amazing friends family and teachers
but it has also left a massive hole in
my life it's the reason I'm not really
looking forward to 2020 because I just
really didn't want to do that without
her
um I kind of wish I could go back in
time and hug her again
but if 2019 has taught me anything it's
that you grow a lot stronger when things
get really tough and I'm expecting it to
get tough in 2020 because I'm still
dealing with this loss and it's really
hard for me but 2019 has kind of given
me the ability to believe that I will
get through it even when I don't really
see it happening so I guess in a way I'm
grateful to 2019 for teaching media even
though it was really hard to learn that
lesson
so 2019 you've been tough really tough
and I heard a lot but I also learned a
lot in this year 2020 please be kind